Add plugin evaluation skill with security checks (#20)
AdonaiVera/fiftyone-skills: skills/fiftyone-eval-plugin/SKILL.md

---
name: fiftyone-eval-plugin
description: Evaluates FiftyOne plugins for quality, security, and agent-readiness. Use when reviewing a plugin before installation, auditing an existing plugin, validating a plugin you just built, or assessing community plugins for safety. Produces a structured report with scores and actionable recommendations.
---

# Evaluate FiftyOne Plugins

## Key Directives

**ALWAYS follow these rules:**

### 1. Read the entire plugin before judging

> Read every Python file, every JavaScript file, the manifest, and any config files. Never assess based on a partial read.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Read every source and configuration file of the plugin. Common file extensions: `.py`, `.ts`, `.tsx`, `.js`, `.yaml`, `.yml`, and `.json`. Never construct an assessment of a plugin without first reading every line of every source file.
```

### 2. Security first

> Check for dangerous patterns before anything else. A plugin with perfect code quality but a hidden `subprocess.call()` sending data to an external server is a critical failure.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Check for dangerous patterns before anything else. A plugin with perfect code quality that violates established and well known security best practices, is an immediate critical failure.
```

Reviewer: A question regarding continuation of analysis. If/when an agent detects a security concern, should it stop immediately and raise the issue or should it complete the security audit _first_, potentially finding all security issues, and then stop to report? 

My instinct is to go with the latter. Instead of burning tokens to get back to the same point, continue up to the end of the security audit. If there are any critical security issues or $\ge N$ suspect security issues, at the end of the audit, stop assessment and report, otherwise continue the assessment.

### 3. Be specific and actionable

> Every finding must include: what's wrong, where it is (file + line), why it matters, and how to fix it. Never say "improve code quality" without pointing to the exact issue.

Reviewer: Wonder if this might be best as a bulleted list for better human readability

Author: At the end we generate like a summary of suggestion, this is going to be there!

### 4. Score honestly

> A plugin by a trusted org with security issues still gets a security failure. A community plugin with great code still gets credit. Judge the code, not the author.

Reviewer: This is interesting. Did you observe some bias in the evaluation?

Author: We don’t have many plugins from big organizations yet, but I’d rather remove that bias from the start. We should focus on the code, not other factors.

### 5. Check the real plugin framework

> Always verify against the actual FiftyOne plugin system. Use MCP tools to list operators, get schemas, and check registration — don't just read files.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Always verify the plugin under assessment against the actual FiftyOne plugin system. Use MCP tools to list operators, get schemas, and check registration — don't just read files.
```

Reviewer: Adding for more explicitness

```python
list_plugins(enabled=True)
list_operators(builtin_only=False)
get_operator_schema(operator_uri="@org/operator-name")
```

> ## Workflow

Reviewer: ```suggestion
## Evaluation Workflow
```

### Phase 1: Manifest & Structure

Check the plugin is well-formed before loading it.

> **1.1 Parse `fiftyone.yml`:**

Reviewer: Just a rhetorical question. I wonder if using "parse" vs "read" or "inspect" would make the model more likely to check that the YAML is valid 🤔

Author: Hmm, good question. I'm not sure. I usually see words like “parse” used more often with these kinds of agents.

- `name` exists and follows convention (`@org/plugin-name`)
- `version` is present and valid semver
- `fiftyone.version` constraint is specified
- `operators` and/or `panels` lists are non-empty
- `secrets` are declared if the plugin uses API keys

**1.2 Skills declaration:**
- Check if `fiftyone.yml` includes a `skills:` section listing companion skills (similar to `operators:` and `panels:`)
- If `skills:` is declared, verify each listed skill has a matching `SKILL.md` file in the plugin directory following the Agent Skills format (YAML frontmatter with `name` and `description`, plus workflow sections)

> - If no `skills:` section exists, note this as an observation — the plugin does not ship with companion skills for AI assistants. This is not a penalty, but plugins with skills have higher agent success rates.

Reviewer: Wonder if giving it a link/reference to the docs or the example repo would help the model understand what keys are expected

**1.3 File structure:**

> - `__init__.py` (or declared `py_entry`) exists

Reviewer: Never seen `py_entry` only the `pyproject.toml` [design](https://packaging.python.org/en/latest/specifications/pyproject-toml/#entry-points). For my own education, can you point me to a resource about the `py_entry` declaration?

Author: Fix it ! 💪

- Every operator in manifest has a matching class in the Python entry file
- Every panel in manifest has a matching class

> - If panels declared: `dist/index.umd.js` exists (built JS bundle)

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- If panels declare: `dist/index.umd.js` exists (built JS bundle)
```

> - `requirements.txt` exists if the plugin imports non-standard packages

Reviewer: I'm not clear on what
> imports non-standard packages

means. Might help to make this more specific

Author: Yeah, this isn’t super clear, but agents are good at handling generic Python tools (Like math, random, and other), which is different from more custom setups like a dev-kit package or TF, or custom libraries that are not default in Python.

Reviewer: But the builtin modules won't be in the `requirements.txt` would they? The "non-standard" here is what doesn't make sense to me and might be confusing to an LLM. Is Numpy a standard package? LLMs might think so

Author: I'm going to change non-standards packages for third-party packages and add more context here, thank you

**1.3 Dependencies:**
- All Python imports resolve (`importlib.util.find_spec`)
- No pinned versions that conflict with FiftyOne's dependencies

**Fail criteria:** Missing `fiftyone.yml`, missing `name`, or entry file doesn't exist → stop eval, report as broken.

### Phase 2: Security & Trust

**This is the most critical phase.** FiftyOne plugins run with full OS-level permissions — no sandbox. A plugin can read files, make network calls, run commands, and access environment variables. Check for misuse.

**2.1 Filesystem access — scan all Python files for:**
```python
# CRITICAL: Look for these patterns

> open(            # File read/write — is it within the plugin directory or dataset paths?

Reviewer: ```suggestion
open()           # File read/write — is it within the plugin directory or dataset paths?
```

os.path          # Path manipulation — is it accessing user home, SSH keys, credentials?
shutil           # File copying — where is it copying to?
pathlib          # Same as os.path
glob.glob        # File discovery — what directories is it scanning?
```

**Acceptable:** Reading/writing within FiftyOne dataset directories, plugin directory, temp files.

> **Suspicious:** Reading `~/.ssh/`, `~/.aws/`, `~/.config/`, `/etc/`, or any path outside FiftyOne scope.

Reviewer: Maybe add clarification this should be OS appropriate? On Windows some of these wouldn't exist or would be denoted like: `%USERPROFILE%\.ssh` or avoiding access of `C:\Windows\System32`

Author: I'll add equivalent suspicious paths for other OS, thank you

> **Critical:** Writing to system directories or reading credential files.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
**Critical:** Writing to system directories or reading credential files. Plugin properly leverages and handles environment variables 
```

**2.2 Network access — scan for:**
```python
# CRITICAL: Look for these patterns

> requests.        # HTTP calls — to where?

Reviewer: ```suggestion
requests         # HTTP calls — to where?
```

urllib           # Same
http.client      # Same
socket           # Raw sockets — almost never legitimate for a plugin
aiohttp          # Async HTTP
httpx            # Same
```

> **Acceptable:** Calls to documented APIs the plugin integrates with (e.g., annotation backend, model API) that match declared secrets.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
**Acceptable:** Calls to documented APIs and services the plugin integrates with (e.g., annotation backend, model API) that match declared secrets.
```

> **Suspicious:** Calls to unknown endpoints, IP addresses, or domains not related to the plugin's stated purpose.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
**Suspicious:** Calls to unknown external endpoints, IP addresses, or domains not directly related to the plugin's stated purpose or related services.
```

> **Critical:** Data being sent to external servers that includes dataset content, user info, or environment variables.

Reviewer: This could be challenging to reconcile for certain organizations or when using a locally hosted endpoint. I suspect this could flag the vLLM plugin, since I have the user configure the appropriate endpoint in the plugin UI.

Author: I still think it’s good to flag it. It won’t change or modify anything, it just highlights it, and then the user can decide if it’s okay or not.

Reviewer: I agree that it would be good to flag, given a user is calls this _manually_. Since an LLM can use this at any point, I'm concerned it'll be annoying to have it calling out something that is really benign

**2.3 Command execution — scan for:**
```python
# CRITICAL: These should rarely appear in plugins
subprocess       # Shell commands — what commands?
os.system        # Same
os.popen         # Same
exec(            # Dynamic code execution

> eval(            # Same

Reviewer: ```suggestion
exec()           # Dynamic code execution
eval()           # Same
```

> __import__       # Dynamic imports

Reviewer: ```suggestion
__import__       # Dynamic imports
importlib        # Another pattern for dynamic imports
```

```

**Acceptable:** Running specific, documented external tools (e.g., `ffmpeg` for video processing in an I/O plugin).

> **Suspicious:** Running arbitrary shell commands, especially with user-provided input.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
**Suspicious:** Running arbitrary shell commands, especially quietly or in an obfuscated manner, with user-provided input.
```

Reviewer: I really think this could be expanded on a lot to be honest

Author: Yes, this is version 1, but here we can add more validations!

> **Critical:** `exec()` or `eval()` on any data that comes from outside the plugin.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
**Critical:** `exec()` or `eval()` on any string, bytes, or arbitrary code not directly included in plaintext with the plugin.
```

Reviewer: Trying to be more specific here

**2.4 Environment variable access:**
```python
# Check for broad env var access
os.environ       # Reading ALL env vars — plugins should only use declared secrets
os.getenv        # Reading specific env vars — which ones?
```

> **Acceptable:** Reading env vars that match the plugin's declared `secrets` in `fiftyone.yml`.

Reviewer: This would be good to link with the rule above about accessing user credentials. I think the previous rule could conflict with this one, as this allows access given guidelines, while the other rule states to consider any access as critical/suspect (can't remember on my phone while having lunch)

Author: I'm going to add more comments here to make it clear

**Suspicious:** Reading env vars not declared as secrets (e.g., `AWS_SECRET_ACCESS_KEY`, `GITHUB_TOKEN`).

> **Critical:** Iterating over `os.environ` to dump all environment variables.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
**Critical:** Iterating over `os.environ` to dump all environment variables or sending environment variable contents to locations not related to service authentication.
```

**2.5 Data exfiltration patterns — check for combinations:**

> - Reads a file + makes a network call in the same function → suspicious

Reviewer: This seem like a very common pattern, especially for leveraging model endpoints

Author: This is relate it to Data Exfiltration attack

Reviewer: Yes, but also reading an API key and making a request to a REST endpoint

Author: I think it’s good to keep this. Yes, could be for an external api that the user know but it could also be a great way to extract images and videos, so we should flag it.

Reviewer: Same as my previous point. Since this isn't always instigated by the user directly, I could see the creating more false positive noise. Given that this is intended to be used before installing a plugin and to evaluate community plugins for users, it might make people less likely to install a plugin that is otherwise safe.

> - Reads env vars + makes a network call → suspicious

Reviewer: API token usage might get flagged here

Author: I think it’s good to keep this. A perfect example is today’s LiteLLM vulnerability, we just need to mention that this is happening. The user should be aware of it. It’s fine if they review it and decide it’s okay, but we need to flag it.

Reviewer: I don't know if the LLM would flag such a recent event since it's not in the training data (too new). The API key usage is considered a safe design pattern, and shouldn't get flagged at all.

> - Accesses dataset samples + writes to a non-FiftyOne path → suspicious

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- Accesses dataset samples and/or writes to a non-FiftyOne path → suspicious
- Patterns allowing arbitrary path traversal or relative path access
```

> - Base64 encoding + network call → highly suspicious

Reviewer: OpenAI compatible endpoints require base64 encoding of image data. This seems like it could raise a lot of false positives

Author: Good point, but remember, this isn’t to modify anything, just to flag it so the user knows this is part of the plugin.

Reviewer: I understand it's not modifying anything, but think about it from a less experienced developer or non-developer perspective. The threshold to achieve "critical" for security is quite low, so using an API key and base64 encoding an image would automatically flag any plugin that does this, but that plugin could be perfectly safe. 

I like the overall idea, it just seems like it will cause more issues overall than it's going to solve.

**2.6 Dependency supply chain:**
- Check `requirements.txt` for known malicious packages

> - Check for typosquatting (e.g., `reqeusts` instead of `requests`)

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- Check for typos (e.g., `reqeusts` instead of `requests`)
```

- Flag packages with very low download counts or no source repository

**Fail criteria:** Any critical finding in 2.1–2.5 → plugin is unsafe, stop eval and report immediately.

### Phase 3: Registration & MCP Readiness

Load the plugin and verify it integrates correctly with FiftyOne.

**3.1 Registration:**
```python
list_plugins(enabled=True)  # Plugin appears?
list_operators()            # All declared operators visible?
```
- `register()` function completes without errors
- All operators from manifest appear in registry
- No name collisions with builtin `@voxel51/*` operators

**3.2 MCP tool exposure:**

> - Operators that should be LLM-accessible are exposed as MCP tools

Reviewer: This might be dependent case-by-case.

Author: I just added as optional

- Internal/helper operators are correctly marked as `unlisted=True`
- Each exposed tool has a description that would help an LLM choose it

**3.3 Startup behavior:**
- If any operator has `on_startup=True`, verify it executes cleanly

> - Startup operators should be fast (< 1 second) and side-effect free

Reviewer: > side-effect free

I think you should be specific here. I'm not clear on startup operators, but just based on the name, I would expect that the intended use of startup operators _is_ to have a side-effect or change behavior somehow

Author: I'm going to add more details like this 

Side effects must be limited to lightweight initialization (loading config, registering state) no data mutations, network calls, or heavy computation at startup

### Phase 4: Schema & Contract Quality

Check that every operator has well-defined inputs and outputs.

**4.1 Input schemas:**
```python
# For each public operator
get_operator_schema(operator_uri="@org/operator-name")
```
- `resolve_input()` returns a valid property tree
- Required fields are marked as `required=True`
- Fields have descriptive labels (not "field1", "param_a")
- Enums have reasonable option lists
- Dynamic operators (`dynamic=True`) adapt their schemas correctly

**4.2 Output schemas:**
- `resolve_output()` exists for operators that return meaningful data

> - Output types match what `execute()` actually returns

Reviewer: Might be challenging without type annotations, not impossible, but could be challenging

Author: Yes, but I can make it more explicit, like where type annotations are absent, check that fields declared in `resolve_output()`

**4.3 Error handling:**

> - Empty params → clean validation error, not a crash

Reviewer: Might need to be more specific like:
> _required_ parameters that are empty → clean validation error, no crash with clear message shown to user

Author: Added it

> - Wrong types → clean error message

Reviewer: Does this mean a `TypeError`?

Reviewer: What about potential `ValueError`s?

Author: I'll be more explicit about both error types

- Missing required fields → clear indication of what's missing

### Phase 5: Risk Classification

> Check that operators are correctly classified by danger level.

Reviewer: Is this considered a hard requirement?

Author: Any of this evals are hard requirements, are only suggestion

**5.1 Operator severity declaration:**
- Check if operators declare a `severity` in their `OperatorConfig` (e.g., `foo.OperatorConfig(..., severity=foo.Severity.DANGEROUS)`)
- FiftyOne supports severity levels that control how operators are presented and confirmed in the App
- If no `severity` is set on any operator, note this as an observation — the plugin does not use the built-in severity system. This means the App won't show automatic risk indicators or confirmation prompts based on severity.

**5.2 Destructive operations:**
- Any operator that deletes samples, fields, datasets, or files should have `allow_delegated_execution=True` or require confirmation
- Check for: `dataset.delete_samples()`, `dataset.delete_field()`, `sample.delete()`, `shutil.rmtree()`, `os.remove()`

> - These MUST NOT be auto-executable without user confirmation

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- Destructive operations MUST NOT be auto-executable without user confirmation
```

Reviewer: Making things more specific

**5.2 Data modification:**

> - Operators that modify sample fields, add labels, or change metadata should be clearly labeled

Reviewer: > should be clearly labeled

or 

> must be clearly labeled

Author: This are suggestions, I think its good to keep should

> - Users should know what will change before execution

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- Users must be notified of all expected changes before execution
```

**5.3 External side effects:**

> - Operators that make API calls, send data externally, or trigger external systems should require explicit user consent

Reviewer: should or must?

Author: This are suggestions, I think its good to keep should

> - Check if the operator description warns the user about external calls

Reviewer: I wouldn't want this for an endpoint that I stood up locally or even using a cloud provider (GCP, AWS, etc.). Not clear if there's a good way to specify "known" endpoints reasonably, but seems like it would be bothersome to be nagged every time

Author: I think we should keep this as a suggestion in the output of these evals.

Reviewer: If a plugin doesn't do this, will it count towards the security violation?

**5.4 Cost implications:**

> - Operators that trigger paid API calls (LLM inference, cloud compute) should document expected cost

Reviewer: If I use a gateway/proxy, it might not be clear if the endpoint would be paid or not

Author: This is mainly for a company API key, and it’s just a suggestion for the user, it’s not mandatory.

> - `allow_delegated_execution` should be true for long-running paid operations

Reviewer: should or must

Author: Should

### Phase 6: Code Quality

Check the plugin follows FiftyOne conventions.

**6.1 FiftyOne patterns:**
- Uses `ctx.target_view()` for processing (not raw `ctx.dataset`)
- Uses `ctx.store()` with namespaced keys (not generic "data" or "config")

> - Delegated execution for operations processing >100 samples

Reviewer: 100 samples seems low to me. Given the quickstart dataset has 200 samples, I think that might be better, but is still quite arbitrary. At the very least, I think that it would be better that a plugin provide an option for delegated execution and avoids making the delegation mandatory.

Author: Good point, just added it

> - Generator pattern (`execute_as_generator`) for operations >1 second

Reviewer: One second seems quite arbitrary. Also, wouldn't a generator have more to do with memory management than execution time?

Author: Applied it

- Progress reporting for long operations

**6.2 Code style:**

> - Follows `fiftyone-code-style` conventions (imports, naming, aliases)

Reviewer: Hm, code style can be _extremely_ subjective. I will use very different code style/semantics in my plugins than what `fiftyone` uses. An assessment rooted in that style is arbitrary, and potentially unfair. I may choose to add full type hints in my plugin, and shouldn't be penalized for doing so if it's all correct.

Author: I just moved as optional

- No hardcoded dataset names, file paths, or model names
- Dynamic discovery via `list_operators()`, `get_operator_schema()` instead of assumptions

**6.3 ExecutionStore usage:**
- Store keys are scoped (include plugin name and dataset ID)
- TTL set on cached data (not storing forever)
- No reading other plugins' store keys

### Phase 7: Agent Discoverability

> Check that an LLM agent can effectively use this plugin's tools.

Reviewer: Probably need to specify when this is the case. Perhaps not every plugin will be made to function directly with LLMs?

Author: mark as optional

**7.1 Tool naming:**

> - Operator names describe what they do (`compute_embeddings`, not `run_pipeline_v2`)

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- All operator names, that are **not** unlisted `unlisted=True`, describe what they do (`compute_embeddings`, not `run_pipeline_v2`)
```

Reviewer: Allow for any operator name for unlisted operators

- Names are distinct from builtin operators (no confusion with `@voxel51/*` tools)

**7.2 Tool descriptions:**
- Each operator's `label` and `description` clearly explain when to use it
- A non-expert reading just the description could decide whether this tool fits their task

**7.3 Ambiguity check:**
- No two operators in the plugin have overlapping descriptions

> - The distinction between similar operators is clear (e.g., "import images" vs "import labels")

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- The distinction between similar operators is clear (e.g., "import_images" vs "import_labels")
```

Reviewer: Since these aren't import statements

Reviewer: Also, consider adding a bad example: "import_images" and "import_media" could have overlapping functionality but "import_images" and "import_audio_media" clearly do not

**7.4 Companion skills:**
- Check if the plugin declares `skills:` in `fiftyone.yml` (verified in Phase 1.2)

> - If skills exist, verify they provide clear step-by-step workflows that reference the plugin's operators

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- If skills exist, verify each skill provides a clear step-by-step workflow that reference the plugin's operators
```

## Report Format

Generate the report in this structure:

```markdown
# Plugin Eval Report: {plugin_name}

## Summary
- **Overall Score:** {score}/100
- **Security:** {PASS | WARN | FAIL}
- **Quality:** {score}/100
- **Agent Readiness:** {score}/100
- **Critical Issues:** {count}
- **Warnings:** {count}

## Security Assessment
{List each finding with severity, file, line, description, and fix}

## Critical Issues
{Findings that must be fixed before the plugin is safe to use}

## Warnings
{Findings that should be fixed but don't block usage}

## Passed Checks
{What the plugin does well — give credit where due}

## Recommendations
{Ordered list: most impactful fix first, with specific instructions}

## Component Scores
| Area | Score | Key Finding |
|------|-------|-------------|
| Manifest & Structure | {score} | {one-line summary} |
| Security & Trust | {score} | {one-line summary} |
| Registration & MCP | {score} | {one-line summary} |
| Schema & Contract | {score} | {one-line summary} |
| Risk Classification | {score} | {one-line summary} |
| Code Quality | {score} | {one-line summary} |

> | Agent Discoverability | {score} | {one-line summary} |

Reviewer: Are these scores 5/5, 100/100? I don't see it documented anywhere

Author: added it 100/100

```

## Scoring

**Overall = weighted average:**

> - Security & Trust: 30% (safety is non-negotiable)

Reviewer: If safety is non-negotiable, I feel like its weighting would need to be higher. If security is 0, that's still an overall 70/100 for the overall score (minor improvements needed). I see the security scoring below, and it would be directly in conflict with this line, in my view. Perhaps it would be weighted at some % only if no critical security findings were detected?

Author: I split it in two validation, one that give you a score, and I moved the security and trust as a separate one, if there is more than one its going to flag that

- 1+ critical findings → FAIL (do not install)

## Quick Reference

### Common Security Patterns to Flag

| Pattern | Severity | Why |
|---------|----------|-----|
| `os.environ` iteration | Critical | Dumps all env vars including secrets |
| `subprocess` + user input | Critical | Command injection risk |
| `exec()` / `eval()` | Critical | Arbitrary code execution |
| `requests.post()` + dataset data | Critical | Data exfiltration |
| `open("/etc/...")` | Critical | System file access |
| `open("~/.ssh/...")` | Critical | Credential theft |
| `socket.connect()` | Suspicious | Raw network access |
| `os.getenv("AWS_*")` undeclared | Suspicious | Accessing secrets not in manifest |
| `shutil.copytree()` to external path | Suspicious | Data copying |
| No `resolve_input()` | Warning | Unvalidated inputs |
| Generic store keys | Warning | Cross-plugin data leaks |

### Score Interpretation

| Score | Meaning |
|-------|---------|
| 90-100 | Production-ready, well-built plugin |
| 70-89 | Good plugin with minor improvements needed |
| 50-69 | Usable but has significant gaps |
| 30-49 | Needs major work before deployment |
| 0-29 | Unsafe or fundamentally broken |

> ## Troubleshooting

Reviewer: Maybe also reference the `fiftyone-troubleshooting` skill?

Author: good idea

**Plugin won't load for evaluation:**
- Check `fiftyone.yml` exists and has valid YAML syntax
- Check Python entry file has no import errors
- Try: `python -c "import fiftyone; fiftyone.plugins.list_plugins()"`

**Can't check MCP exposure:**
- Verify FiftyOne MCP server is available
- Check: `fiftyone-mcp` binary exists in PATH

**Security scan finds too many false positives:**
- Check if flagged patterns are inside test files (tests/ directory) — lower severity
- Check if network calls match declared secrets — likely legitimate
- Use context: an I/O plugin making HTTP calls to a documented API is expected

## Resources

- [FiftyOne Plugin Development Guide](https://docs.voxel51.com/plugins/developing_plugins.html)
- [Anthropic's Framework for Safe Agents](https://www.anthropic.com/news/our-framework-for-developing-safe-and-trustworthy-agents)
- [FiftyOne Plugins Repository](https://github.com/voxel51/fiftyone-plugins)
- [fiftyone-develop-plugin skill](../fiftyone-develop-plugin/SKILL.md) — for fixing code quality issues

> - [fiftyone-code-style skill](../fiftyone-code-style/SKILL.md) — for fixing style issues

Reviewer: I would make this a separate document and reference it here.

```
fiftyone-eval-plugin
|__ SKILL.md
|__ references
  |__ assessment_template.md
```
Per the Agent Skills spec https://agentskills.io/specification#references/

Author: This is something that I have to do with all the skills, its a pending tasks! I think for now its okey, I'll do this in a different PR

```python
list_plugins(enabled=True)
list_operators(builtin_only=False)
get_operator_schema(operator_uri="@org/operator-name")
```

## Workflow

### Phase 1: Manifest & Structure

Check the plugin is well-formed before loading it.

**1.1 Parse `fiftyone.yml`:**
- `name` exists and follows convention (`@org/plugin-name`)
- `version` is present and valid semver
- `fiftyone.version` constraint is specified
- `operators` and/or `panels` lists are non-empty
- `secrets` are declared if the plugin uses API keys

**1.2 Skills declaration:**
- Check if `fiftyone.yml` includes a `skills:` section listing companion skills (similar to `operators:` and `panels:`)
- If `skills:` is declared, verify each listed skill has a matching `SKILL.md` file in the plugin directory following the Agent Skills format (YAML frontmatter with `name` and `description`, plus workflow sections)
- If no `skills:` section exists, note this as an observation — the plugin does not ship with companion skills for AI assistants. This is not a penalty, but plugins with skills have higher agent success rates.

**1.3 File structure:**

> - `__init__.py` (or declared `py_entry`) exists

Author: ```suggestion
- `__init__.py` exists
```

**2.5 Data exfiltration patterns — check for combinations:**
- Reads a file + makes a network call in the same function → suspicious
- Reads env vars + makes a network call → suspicious
- Accesses dataset samples and/or writes to a non-FiftyOne path → suspicious
- Patterns allowing arbitrary path traversal or relative path access
- Base64 encoding + network call → highly suspicious

**2.6 Dependency supply chain:**
- Check `requirements.txt` for known malicious packages
- Check for typosquatting (e.g., `reqeusts` instead of `requests`)
- Flag packages with very low download counts or no source repository

**Fail criteria:** Any critical finding in 2.1–2.5 → plugin is unsafe, stop eval and report immediately.

### Phase 3: Registration & MCP Readiness

Load the plugin and verify it integrates correctly with FiftyOne.

**3.1 Registration:**
```python
list_plugins(enabled=True)  # Plugin appears?
list_operators()            # All declared operators visible?
```
- `register()` function completes without errors
- All operators from manifest appear in registry
- No name collisions with builtin `@voxel51/*` operators

> **3.2 MCP tool exposure:**

Author: ```suggestion
**3.2 MCP tool exposure: (Optional)** 
```
